the head of the United Nations says he
is shocked at reaction to remarks that
he made at the UN Security Council
yesterday Antonio gutes says he clearly
condemned the October 7th Hamas Terror
attacks against Israel but in that
speech he also described Israel's
bombing of Gaza as quote Collective
punishment of
Palestinians I am shocked by the
misrepresentations by some of my
statement yesterday in the Security
Council as
if as if I was justifying acts of Terror
by
amas this is
false it was the
opposite in the beginning of my
intervention yesterday I clearly stated
and I quote I have condemned
unequivocally the orfy and unprecedented
7 October acts of Terror by amas in
Israel nothing can justify the Del
liberate killing injuring and kidnapping
of civilians or the launching of rockets
against civilian targets end
quote indeed I spoke of the Grievances
of the Palestinian
people and in doing so I also clearly
stated and I quote that the Grievances
of the Palestinian people cannot justify
the appalling attacks by amas end quote
and then I went on with my intervention
referring all my positions on all
aspects of the Middle East
crisis I believe it was necessary to set
the record
straight especially out of
respect to the victims and to their
families thank
you well Israel's ambassador to the UN
you may recall has called on the
Secretary General to resign my colleague
Phil Gail asked DW's Rebecca ritters in
Jerusalem how the statements from gutes
have been received inside
Israel well we haven't had any reaction
yet Phil of the the statement that you
just heard from Antonio guz saying that
he was shocked by Israel's reaction but
there certainly was a flurry of
reactions after he made those initial
statements uh the Israel's you
ambassador to the UN as you just
mentioned calling on an anonio gues to
step down saying he had no place to be
making such remarks they also said that
they want to block un worker visas for
com un workers or un representatives
from coming in to Israel and in fact the
first Visa has been refused and Aid uh
emergency aid coordinator had his Visa
refused to come into Israel now we don't
know exactly how far down the hierarchy
such a Visa ban would would would be
whether or not that will affect people
who work here the many humanitarian Aid
workers who are here for the US
representing uh one of the the main body
the the unra the main body that
represents Palestinians in the
Palestinian territories or not
represents them sorry but looks after
them um so you know we're not really
sure exactly how far that will go but
we're seeing that they are standing by
their words having refused that first
Visa uh and absolutely Furious he you
know the the the Israeli Ambassador
wasn't the only one to to be furious
there were other people the chairman of
Yad fem also uh expressing outrage by
gish's comments but as heard there you
terish feeling firmly that he's been
misinterpreted well my first guest
tonight is the US Diplomat David hell he
is a former under Secretary of State for
political Affairs he also served as the
US ambassador to Pakistan Lebanon and
Jordan Mr Ambassador it's good to have
you with us tonight um let's talk about
what's happening right now at the UN the
UN Security Council appears unable to
pass a resolution calling for a
ceasefire in Gaza Israel is accusing the
UN security or Secret Secretary General
of justifying acts of Terror by Hamas I
want to ask you as a diplomat how do you
describe what is going on at the UN
right
now well it reminds me a little bit of
the negotiations over a security Council
ceas fire in 2006 between Israel and and
uh and hisbah during the Lebanon war and
uh you know what's important really
isn't a piece of paper from the security
Council calling for certain steps but
actually whether the situation on the
ground is going to provide an
environment in which the parties can can
somehow establish some stability and and
and peace and we're not there yet um you
know after the vicious attack by Hamas
on innocent Israeli civilians uh it is
unrealistic to expect that Israel is
just simply going to accept a ceasefire
they're going to need in their View and
frankly I would say objectively uh it is
true to reestablish the deterrence and
reestablish their ability to defend
their country and they're not there yet
and how do you see this impacting the
possibility of
negotiating a full hostage release we
know we're still talking about more than
200 people who are being held by
Hamas yeah I mean this of course is
separate from the security Council which
which is pretty much irrelevant frankly
to to that um we and Israel uh are
working through cutar
which has relations with Hamas and with
Iran and they have been able to produce
the releases that we've seen so far um
my suspicion is that you know you'll see
more releases uh but this is designed by
Hamas to sort of uh tease out slowly one
by one two by two um perhaps the most
vulnerable hostages which is obviously
relief to everyone to to see see them uh
liberated but it's really part of a
strategy to uh maneuver against Israel
and to try to Forstall the land
offensive that we all expect to see the
ground offensive that we all expect to
see in Gaza US President Biden today he
called for a two-state solution also
calling for settler violence to stop it
sounds like a reiteration of standing US
policy um what should we read into it
today yeah that's right I mean no
Administration has deviated from those
basic principles although president
Trump uh had a slightly different
position he said whatever the part's
going to agree to it's fine to make
those statements it's fine to have those
objectives the question really is what
is the realistic path forward given the
state of play since October 7 and even
before October 7 to the two-state
solution neither side Palestinian nor
Israeli has really invested seriously in
an effort to reach that outcome and
their publics are cynical and skeptical
frankly on both sides that there is a
viable path to a two-state
outcome how would you grade us
credibility right now in the region
there are those who point to US policy
in the Middle East particularly with
Israel and the Palestinians and say that
you know the US has largely been missing
now for the past 10 years um how
credible is the us right
now well I would I would challenge the
statement that we've been missing we may
not have been doing things that certain
actors want us to do but the Abraham
Accords was a major historic
breakthrough uh in uh relations between
Arab states Sunni Arab states and Israel
so uh I I wouldn't accept that what has
been missing is a realistic path toward
resolving the issues that the
Palestinians face and that's a long
complicated story that I don't think we
can tackle in a sound bite but again I
you know personally was involved in much
of this and uh at Key moments uh both
sides ran away from opportunities the
United States offered I don't think the
US wants to ever walk away from being
able to play a constructive role in
bringing these parties together and
establishing peace but we can't deliver
things that those leaders themselves
don't wish to achieve do you do you
think there is some validity though to
the statement that the US had had
reduced or shifted it its focus in the
last few years I mean we've talked a lot
about the the pivot to Asia for US
foreign policy and then you've also had
the Russian invasion of Ukraine did the
events on October 7th you know Force the
United States to refocus on Israel and
the
Palestinians well I never liked the
phrase the pivot uh obviously China is
the significant geostrategic challenge
for the United States but that's a
global Challenge and it's not just about
the Pacific important as it is that we
re reprioritize and make sure that we
have the military assets we need to
deter an attack on Taiwan or and ensure
the freedom of navigation in the South
China Seas uh but the competition's
global and it includes the Middle East
we need to make sure China is not
exploiting the situation and I'm also
struck that all the parties in the
Middle East at the moment of Crisis like
this they look to Washington and they
don't look elsewhere and finally our own
interests are at stake our energy
interests Global uh energy Market
stability uh our friendship with Israel
and with key Arab Partners our values uh
anti-terrorism all of this is at stake
in the Middle East we can't walk away
from it and unfortunately if we try to
we are reminded at moments like this
that that's not an option before the
events of October 7th the Biden
administration had been clear in its
criticisms of netanyahu's push to reform
Israel's
Judiciary Netanyahu was being called um
at least not a friend of the system of
checks and balances considering that is
he now is he still a credible partner
for the United
States well he's the prime minister of
Israel so we don't have it's not for us
to choose I you know I've seen every
president uh during BB netanyahu's
tenure up close dealing with him and
he's the Israeli Prime Minister American
president's love to hate but he's
elected time and time again he will face
accountability after what's happened
once this campaign is over and I suspect
he's he's going to have some
difficulties but it's not for us to
choose and I was uncomfortable where
wherever you stand on the judicial
question in Israel I'm uncomfortable
when I see American officials try to
dictate to foreign officials in a
democracy how to conduct their Affairs
do you get the feeling that the Biden
Administration Secretary of State
Anthony blinkin that there has been an
attempt somewhat to to at least set up
guard rails for Israel to stay within
considering what's going
[Music]
on well in my experience since Ronald
Reagan and the siege of Beirut and the
big blowups that he had with makim Bean
most American presidents have tried to
avoid being in a position of advising
Israeli officials about uh military
tactics uh it's up to Israel to defend
itself we provide our friend the support
they need but not dictating the T the
the the military decisions that they
have to make because we don't want to
own them that's for them I do sense that
President Biden is leaning a bit forward
compared to the Past um and I think it's
it's a responsible thing for an American
president to ask questions particular
you know what's next after this
operation occurs as it appears to be the
the plan for ground operation what's
next uh what are the what's a realistic
set of objectives for this campaign
because we're together going to have to
be dealing with a Fallout from it yeah I
think a lot of people in the Middle East
and on both sides of the Atlantic are
posing that very question what is next
Ambassador David hell Ambassador we
appreciate your time in your analysis
tonight thank
you thank you very much good
night